Task 3c:

1. Describe how we can use the Simplex algorithm to solve the Fractional
   Knapsack problem. You should begin by clearly stating the fractional knapsack
   problem and then describe the steps required to transform this into the input
   to the Simplex algorithm. You should also comment on how the solution
   generated by the Simplex algorithm can be translated into a solution the
   Fractional Knapsack problem.

   The fractional knapsack problem is similar to the 0/1 knapsack problem in
   that with a given set of items (with a value and weight) you must fill a
   knapsack with a given capacity with the highest value possible. The
   fractional knapsack problem differs in that a proportion of an item can be
   placed in the bag as oppose to an item either being fully in the bag or not.
   Using this specification we get...

   Max           2x(1) + 4x(2) + 3x(3)...       we want to maximize the value
   Subject to    1x(1) + 2x(2) + 4x(3)... <= 6  without the weight exceeding the
                                                capacity
                  0 <= x(i) <= 1                output for all items

   Applying the simplex algorithm will give a table where a 1 in the column for
   each item will signify the quantity of the item to be taken (e.g. a 1 in the
   column for x(1) with a value of 1 means take x(1)).


2. Will the previous approach always provide the optimal solution (explain)? How
   does its complexity compare to the greedy approach for the Fractional
   Knapsack problem?

   The approach above will give the optimal solution for the fractional knapsack
   problem. For a knapsack problem involving "n" items this can be achieved in a
   complexity of o(n logn) which is comparable to that of the greedy algorithm
   where the majority of the complexity is taking sorting the items based on
   their value/weight ratio.


3. What is the difference between a linear program and a mixed integer linear
   program? You should comment on the comparative complexity of the two
   problems.

   In linear programming we attempt to maximize (or minimize) a function with
   certain restraints. These restraints must be linear (no parametric or
   hyperbolic constraints).
   Mixed integer programming has these same characteristics as well as the fact
   that the solution to the problem is restricted to integers. This added
   feature means that integer linear programming is NP-complete.


4. Look up the concept of a relaxation of a (mixed) integer linear program and
   explain how it might let us use the Simplex algorithm to solve the 0/1
   Knapsack problem.

   Relaxation takes place on "slack variables" that can be introduced into
   constraints to signify the extra value that can be added with the constraint
   still being satisfied. In the knapsack problem these slack variables can be
   introduced to signify the extra capacity as well as the value that can be
   included in the bag before the weight exceeds the capacity. These slack
   variables can then be relaxed resulting in a tableau where a lone 1 in the
   variables column can be used to read off 1/0 for the given item. 
